We were on Discord last night having a fascinating conversation, and at some point,
We ended up talking about those four famous words that everyone struggles to pronounce like a native English speaker.
Beach, bitch, sheet, and shit. How do you pronounce these words correctly?
Well, I'm going to show you a simple exercise that'll teach you how to pronounce these words perfectly right now.
Well, after the intro. Roll that!
All right. Now, I hope I didn't get your hopes up with that intro,
Because what I'm about to show you is nothing revolutionary or groundbreaking.
But I do believe it will help you to truly hear the difference between the way these words sound.
So grab a pen and a piece of paper because I'm about to learn you something.
So let's get started with the first word. I'm going to spell it in and no matter where you are,
No matter what you are doing right now, I want you to say the word out loud. Okay?
So here we go. B E A C H. Beach. Exactly.
I'm sure you got that one right because you're smart.
B E A C H spells 'beach', right? La playa, a praia, la plage, la Spiaggia one, please.
Hey motherfucker! This is life in English, man.
Oh, yeah, my bad. But who doesn't love the beach, man? I mean, what is there not to love?
You got the beautiful blue ocean, the sound of the waves crashing on the shore,
The sand between your toes, some dudes selling whole coconuts for you to drink out of.
And of course, hundreds of pretty ladies in bikinis or, you know,
Shirtless dudes showing off the triceps, lats, and pecs or, you know, skinny,
Shirtless dudes with slightly toned muscles and great personalities.
On a side note, isn't it funny that women are totally fine walking around like, half-naked at the beach,
But they wouldn't dare let a stranger see them in some lingerie or something like that?
I always thought that was so funny. You know, like imagine if you order a package or something like that,
they leave the package on the door and you have to go get it from your front door and bring it inside.
And you just got on lingerie, maybe you were getting dressed or you just got undressed, whatever.
You go to get the package, the delivery man is still standing on the porch,
And just naturally, you would want to cover yourself. Oh, don't look. Oh, sorry. Right?
But at the beach it's like, Fuck it, let it all hang out. Who gives a shit?
Like, literally a shoestring just holding up a little piece of cloth, you know,
Just covering certain parts of the skin. A small fraction of the skin.
But fuck it, let it hang out. It's the beach. That's just funny to me.
Like, the beach is maybe the only,
One of the only places where women feel totally comfortable just walking around half-naked.
Well, the beach and Instagram.
But anyway, when you go to the beach, right?
You might see a baddie, you might see a beauty, you might see a baby, you might see a dime.
And let's say you, you're feeling confident that day, right?
You've been hitting the gym all winter so you could get that beach body ready for the summer.
You got that fresh haircut, right? You got on your super slick Speedo so you can show off your...
Anyway, the beach is a public place, right?
So you see nothing wrong with approaching this young lady to see if y'all have chemistry, right?
But before you can even open up your mouth to spit that game you've been working on for the past three years,
She takes one look at your super slick Speedo, and she just about laughs you off the beach.
That's painful stuff, bud. But the good thing is, there will always be more fish in the sea.
That's an idiom if you didn't know. All right?
Now, let me show you really quick the exercise.
Let me show you the exercise really quick so that you can see...
You already know how to pronounce this word correctly.
You just have to hear the same sound in different words. Okay?
So now I'm going to spell four words. I'm going to spell them one at a time.
And each time I finish spelling a word, I want you to say it out loud, okay?
So here we go. Number one. T E A C H. Teach. Exactly. T E A C H is teach.
Next word. R E A C H. Reach. Very good. Next word. S P E E C H. Speech. Okay?
Teach, reach, speech. Last word. B E A C H. Beach, right? Teach, reach, speech, beach.
All right. Let's move on to the word that so many people fear saying when they're talking about the beach. Ok?
I'm going to spell it and then you say it. B I T C H. Bitch. That's exactly right.
B I T C H spells 'bitch'.
Now, I'm not going to give you a master class on how to use the word bitch in this episode,
But I will expeditiously explain seven ridiculously common ways to use this word.
But remember, this is considered a curse word or a bad word.
So just be careful when and where you use the word. All right?
So here are seven ways to use the English word 'bitch'. Number one, a female canine animal,
Especially a dog, or a word that refers to a female canine, especially a dog.
That might sound weird, but technically the word bitch does mean female dog.
And that might give you some insight into why we use it in other ways. Right?
But in casual conversation, we don't say 'bitch' when we're talking about an actual dog unless we're maybe trying to be funny.
Like, "Yeah, that's my bitch" when they're talking about their dog.
But we wouldn't really use the word bitch to talk about or to refer to
Or describe a female dog in casual speech, just so you know. All right?
So number two, an offensive word that describes a very mean,
Overbearing or contemptible woman with a bad attitude, you know,
So the same way you might call a guy an asshole or a jerk or a dick because he's really rude
And mean and inconsiderate, you would maybe call a woman 'bitch' and you'd have like the same...
You'd be expressing the same idea more or less. Okay?
So number three is like vulgar slang for a prostitute, right?
Because you have a pimp who has multiple prostitutes and he can refer to those women or those women can be referred to as his bitches.
I didn't invent the language or the definitions, I'm just telling you what they mean. All right?
So what is that, number three? So number four, okay?
Also vulgar slang is when we say "bitch" we're using it to refer to somebody who is submissive to another person.
So if you submit to somebody in this context, you are their bitch.
Or if you make someone submit to you, they are your bitch.
And this is slang and it's vulgar, right? But you know, if you say,
I'm going to make you my bitch, it means I'm going to make you submit to me.
I will dominate, you will submit, in whatever way you take that. You know what I'm saying?
It could be physically, mentally, like just submit in general.
Or it's also common to say, like, I'm going to make Monday my bitch.
Now, Monday is not a person, right? But Monday is a thing. It's a day.
So if I say "Monday is going to be my bitch" I'm going to conquer Monday because everybody hates Mondays, right?
You hate getting up early on Monday morning after the weekend.
So normally Monday ends up beating people down. Monday conquers people.
But if you say, "I'm going to make Monday my bitch" means I'm going to conquer the day.
I'm going to be successful, I'm going to be productive. Monday is my bitch.
I'm in control. That's the idea. I'm sure you understand.
So number five, also vulgar slang. And we use this word to refer to a weak, cowardly, contemptible man.
I talked about that, I think, in episode 125 so check that out if you want.
But a dude who's like, a weak coward, we refer to him as a bitch like,
Man, he's a bitch. He's weak. You see what I'm saying?
And we don't just mean physically, it's more of a mental thing that makes you a bitch.
It's not your physical stature. We mean weak in terms of spirit, character and,
You know, mentality. Hopefully, that makes sense.
Number six is also slang and we use the word to refer to something that's like,
Unpleasant or really, really difficult.
Like, maybe your car breaks down and you have to fix it yourself.
And I could ask you like, Hey, how's it going with the car? Are you making any progress?
And he's like... You could say, Man, it's turned out to be a real bitch.
It's like, the car, the process of fixing the car is a real bitch,
Which just means it's really, really difficult and unpleasant.
I'm not enjoying this shit at all. It's a very difficult task.
It's a bitch. Okay? Hopefully, that makes sense.
And number seven, the last one on my list is a verb.
We use the word bitch as a verb in this case, and it just means to complain or to grumble,
Which is kind of like a less common word to say complain.
And you're just complaining about a bunch of stuff that most likely you could change if you really wanted to,
But instead, you're just complaining like, Oh my God, it's so hot.
Why are you doing that? Somebody turn on the... Like, you're bitching. You know?
It's like classified as weak behavior.
And that's why we call it bitching when you're just complaining, complaining all the time.
So somebody might say "Quit your bitching". Like "bitching and moaning" is another expression.
If somebody is just bitching and moaning, they're like, Oh God, all the time.
Just bitching, acting like a bitch. You know what I'm saying? I'm sure you get the point.
Those are seven quick and easy ways to use the English word 'bitch'.
If you've got any questions, leave them in the comments or hit me up on Discord. You know what to do.
So now, here comes the exercise. I'm going to spell four words, one by one.
And each time I finish spelling the word, I want you to say it out loud.
And remember, pay close attention to the way the words sound. All right?
So here we go. Word number one. G L I T C H. Glitch. Excellent.
Number two. S T I T C H. Stitch.
Number three. W H I C H. Which. Excellent.
So we have glitch, stitch and which. Ok?
Last word. B I T C H. Bitch. That's exactly right.
Glitch, Stitch, which, and bitch.
It's not glitch, stitch, which, and beach. Right?
It's glitch, stitch, which, and bitch.
And I'm like, Bitch, I don't know.
I'm like, Bitch, I'm growing.
The resting bitch face kind of throws them off.
I'm a bitch.
Bitch is an offensive word to women. Don't use it.
Bitch is an empowering word to women. Use it.
Total compassionate bitch.
Yo, bitch.
Don't be a bitch. You got this.
Chapter one is really a bitch but hey it gets better in chapter number two.
There's a smart son of a bitch on the other side of every trade.
You're a no-good son of a bitch.
Science, bitch!
Bill Langer is a son of a bitch, but he's our son of a bitch.
I want my money, bitch.
Don't call me bitch. I'm a grown man.
Why else will we be reading this for the character development, bitch? Where?
Get it together, bitch.
Wow, what a bitch!
All right, y'all. Before we continue, I want to give you a nice little challenge.
The first person who can tell me how many times the word bitch was said in this episode
Will get a free lifetime Life in English community membership.
So if you're watching this on YouTube, you can just comment below.
If you're not watching this on YouTube, then send me a DM on Instagram at @englishwithkaizen.
Only Instagram, ok? Hit me up on YouTube or Instagram if you got the answer,
And the first person to get it right will get a free membership for life.
So come join the community, man. We're waiting for you.
But now let's get back to the next set of words. Sheet and shit.
We've done "beach and bitch" and we've heard the difference between E and I, right?
Same concept here. Just two different words that people have trouble with.
So sheet, I've already said it, but I still want you to say it after I spell it. Right?
S H E E T. Sheet. Sheet. Holy sheet, right? Sheet.
When you hear the word 'sheet' you probably think of that piece of linen that we put on our beds in between the mattress and the blanket.
That's the sheet. But there's more than one type of sheet.
So we have the traditional bed sheet, right?
But you also have, I think what's called the fitted sheet,
Which is kind of like that stretchy one that you put in between the mattress and the regular sheet.
I don't know what you would call it. And they're always so fucking hard to put on the bed like,
You put on one end and you try to stretch it across.
You have to get on the other side of the bed.
And when you pull that one and get it in its position, the other side comes off.
You know what I'm talking about? Those fucking things.
Anyway, those are bed sheets, different kinds of bed sheets.
Now, I don't know if you've heard the song by the Isley Brothers "In Between the Sheets",
But those are the sheets they were referring to in that song.
And just in case you didn't know, in between the sheets is like a poetic way of saying 'in bed'.
And they were using that phrase as a way of talking about some romantic activities that take place in the bed,
If you catch my drift. Right?
Now, in my experience in between the sheets isn't something we actually say in casual conversation, though.
But if you want different ways to refer to sexual activity, you can say things like "In the bedroom".
For example, what my partner and I do in the bedroom is nobody's business.
And that's the same thing as saying like,
The sexual activities that my partner and I participate in together are nobody's business but ours. You understand?
So what we do in the bedroom, what we do sexually is only our business. That's the idea.
Or you could say, I've got to buy new sheets because of what my partner and I did in the bedroom last night. Right?
Or you could say something like "behind closed doors". It's the same thing.
Like, what my partner and I do behind closed doors is nobody's business.
Now, behind closed doors isn't always a sexual thing.
Because you can talk with somebody behind closed doors and it really just means in private,
That's what behind closed doors means. But depending on the context,
You can say behind closed doors and imply you're talking about sexual activity. You see what I'm saying?
Now, I told you there's more than one type of sheet.
So another sheet that you might come across at some point in time is a sheet of paper.
And it's kind of like the same idea, this long, thin piece of material in this case, paper. Right?
Now, you can also say a piece of paper like, do you have a piece of paper?
Or can I borrow a piece of paper? I don't know how you borrow a piece of paper, but you get the idea.
You also have a sheet of metal and as you can see, it looks like a sheet of paper.
So you can tell it's the shape of the object that makes it a sheet, not necessarily the material. Okay?
So here's the exercise again. Four words, one by one, and you say each word as I spell them.
Let's do it. The first one. B E A T. Beat. Excellent.
Number two. M E E T. Meet. Very good.
Number three. G R E E T. Greet. Excellent.
Last word. S H E E T. Sheet.
So you have beat, meet, greet, sheet. Beat. Meet. Greet. Sheet. Yay.
All right, so again, it's that E sound. Meet, greet, sheet, heat, T...
"T" I don't think is a word, but you get the point.
So let's move on to the opposite word, which sounds very different to us.
But I know it's trouble for you guys and that word is S H I T.
Say it out loud. What is it? Shit. Exactly. S H I T spells shit.
Now, this word, much like the word bitch, has many different meanings and uses in the English language.
So let me share a few with you real quick.
Number one, we can use the word shit to refer to stuff or things.
For example, I could say, I've got a lot of shit to do,
And that's just another way of saying I have a lot of things to do, I have a lot of stuff to do.
And by the way, a lot of English learners think that things and stuffs is the equivalent
Because you have one thing or many things, one stuff or many stuffs.
But that's not how it works. Stuff is like an uncountable now and you can't have stuffs.
Stuff just means things. So if I say stuff,
It's implicit that we're talking about more than one thing. I just wanted to make that clear.
So I have a lot of things to do or have a lot of stuff to do.
I got a lot of shit to do. Or I might say something like, Don't touch my shit.
Which simply means don't touch my things, don't touch my possessions, you know?
All right, another way we can use this word is to talk about things like problems or drama or annoyances.
For example, I could be talking to you and say, You know what? I'm tired of dealing with your shit.
Which means I'm tired of dealing with your drama, your problems,
The things that you do that annoy me.
All of your shit, all that negativity, all that bullshit. I'm tired of it. You see?
Or I could say something like, Listen, bro, don't get me involved in your shit.
I do not want to be involved in your shit.
I don't want to be involved in your problems, your drama, your nonsense. You understand?
Or somebody could say, Get your shit together. Get your shit together.
And what that means is like, get your life under control.
All these problems and drama and nonsense you got going on in your life, get it under control.
Get it together. Get your shit together, bro. You see what I'm saying?
All right. Number three is a noun. The word 'shit' is a noun in this case and it just means poop.
Fecal matter. Feces, right? Everybody poops. So I'm sure you know what I'm talking about.
And another word for poop is shit. So somebody might say, like, I have to take a shit.
It's a vulgar way of saying, I have to go number two. I have to defecate, you know?
And there's also a verb. Number four, another way you can use it is as a verb like,
My dog shit on my new carpet. My dog defecated or pooped, went number two on my new carpet.
Or I can't believe he shit his pants at the wedding,
Which means he pooped in his pants at the wedding. He shit in his pants.
You see what I'm saying? So I'm sure you get the point. Right?
But some other ways that you can use the word 'shit' is in a word shitstorm.
That's another way to use the word. And a shitstorm kind of going back to usage number two,
Which is just like problems and drama, if you're experiencing a shitstorm,
It just means like a lot of chaos and drama and problems are happening at the same time. You know?
Like 2020 was a shitstorm, so to speak. Hopefully, you get the idea.
It's a storm of shit, bad things, problems, something you don't want. You see what I'm saying?
Or somebody could be full of shit. If somebody is full of shit that means that they're lying.
They're making up things or inventing things. They don't know what they're talking about.
And I'm sure you've heard somebody like that before. You're listening to them and it's like,
Clear they have no idea what the fuck they're talking about and they're just making it up as they go along.
They're full of shit. Literally full of poop, feces, nonsense, idiocy.
They're full of shit. No bueno. You know what I'm saying?
Or if somebody could be talking shit, somebody could be talking shit.
So to talk shit just means, like, to say reckless, offensive, nonsensical things to somebody else, you know?
So somebody might be popping off at the mouth.
Talking and talking and talking about how they're going to physically hurt you,
How they're going to do this to you and that to you.
They're just talking shit, but they're not doing anything.
Or somebody might be making jokes about your appearance,
Saying you're ugly, saying you're stupid, whatever. They're talking shit.
Saying a bunch of negative things that don't help you in any way. It's nonsense.
It's negativity. It's hurtful in some way. It's just not good.
You don't want it. Kind of like actual shit. You know what I'm saying?
So hopefully you can get the idea of the way we use the word 'shit' in many cases, right?
So those are some ways that we use them in casual speech on a daily basis.
So finally, here's the exercise. Here we go.
First word. B I T. How do you say that? Bit. Excellent.
Number two. H I T. Hit. All right.
Number three. S P I T. Spit. Very good.
Last one. S H I T. Shit.
That's also another way you can use 'shit' is like an exclamation when somebody does something cool or impressive.
Like, Shit! Holy shit! Oh, shit! That was crazy shit! Sheesh!
You know what I'm saying? That's another way you can use it.
But back to the exercise. Bit, hit, spit and shit. It's not beat, heat, speet, and sheet.
Holy shit. That's not how we pronounce that word. It's an 'ih' sound.
And I got, you know, all the weird shit.
My mother was a chair, you piece of shit. Fuck, what?
Dates back to 2400 B.C.? Holy shit!
That doesn't mean shit.
Enough listening, start doing shit.
I don't give a shit what they say. I'll be dead.
Earlier this week, I found out you were coming, and I was just like, Oh, shit.
Well, shit!
Fuck your Hollywood shit.
I sat down beside this white guy. He almost shit his pants.
Until the day you wake up and realize, Holy shit, Jeff was right.
So they stopped watching me, and then they go watch worse shit.
Then quit, you slimy fucking walrus-looking piece of shit!
Okay, so just a review. Here are the four sets of words that you can use to train yourself
To notice the difference between the sounds we make in English.
Set number one. Teach, Reach, Speech, and Beach.
Write those words down and say them again, again and again.
Put them into Google. You can actually go on Google and type in how to pronounce
And then enter the word and a robot will show you how to pronounce it.
And it's obviously a robot,
But it's better than nothing if you really need to hear how the word is pronounced, right?
So that's set number one. Teach, reach, speech and beach.
Number two. Glitch, stitch, which, and bitch. Okay?
Number three. Beat, meet, greet, and sheet.
And number four. Bit, hit, spit, and shit. Okay? Those are the four sets of words.
Write them down and practice them until you have mastered the English pronunciation. You got me?
But that's it, my friend.
Thank you so much for your time and your attention.
I really hope this episode was helpful to you and I'll definitely talk to you soon. Peace!